# Happiness-Analysis-Europe

I decided to use Tableau to visualize self-reported happiness data in Europe through key demographic characteristics including country, income, education, minority status, and more. This data was gathered by the European Social Survey (ESS) and the time period of gathering the data was from late 2018 to early 2020. The original dataset is included in this repository, alongside a Jupyter Notebook I used to clean the data and prepare it for visualization within Tableau. I also included the survey documentation, which I used to interpret the dataset. Of course, I included the Tableau workbook which can be viewed in Tableau Reader.

From these visualizations and the eventual dashboard I created, I learned some new insights in addition to confirming some existing notions I had in my head. I was surprised to see that younger people tended to report being happier on average compared to older people. The notion I had in my mind was that the state of the world and the pressures of finding one's passion while trying to make a living would make younger people less happy with the things going on in their lives, while older people tend to be more settled and at peace with their lives, at least in my mind. This does not seem to be reflected within the data. One insight which I expected was that countries in Western Europe and North Europe would tend to have a higher reported average happiness as these countries tend to be more developed. Education seemed to be correlated with happiness as shown by the heatmap, but with some strange results like the fact that education level 3 (the equivalent of a high school diploma in the US) had a higher average happiness then education level 4 (a certificate program in the US). 
